# How I found a SF apartment in 3 days

It wasn't easy to find an apartment in San Francisco. I'd just gotten
married, had just started a great new job, and was in the midst of
starting a brand new life. This, combined with the fact that the San
Francisco rental market is one of the most competitive in the nations,
is
a recipe for headache.

But, I found a great place in 3 days. Part of it may have been luck, but
I also set up a system that I _knew_ would help me succeed. This is my
story, and hopefully it can work for you too.

## Don't Find A Perfect Place, Eliminate The Wrong Places

There is no such thing as a perfect apartment in San Francisco, at least
in a short-notice search like mine was. Don't get lost in a sea of
ideals -- remove the unacceptable areas from your search ASAP. 

I made a list of three columns: "Must Have, Nice To Have, and
Unnecessary
but Awesome." With this list, I weighted various real estate qualities:
price, proximity to work, nightlife, safety, view, weather, proximity
to shopping, proximity to transit, etc. I also limited the "Must Have" 
and "Nice To Have" to three points. 

With this list in hand, it was easy to start cutting out the crap in the
search. 

## Ask for help. From everyone.

You're not the first one to look for an apartment in San Francisco. It's
hard. Other people have blogged about it, and your coworkers have gone
through the process as well. Ask for help -- there's nothing wrong with
it. You'll get specific, more honest advice, and you'll save a boatload
of time.

I received a lot of help from my fine friends at
[GitHub](github.com). The advice I got from them was invaluable. In
fact, the advice I got from people who weren't my coworkers was great as
well. The more advice I got, the more I was able to understand the
market, and how to dive in.

## Go For Volume

Once I determined my ideal locations and price ranges, I started
checking out places en masse. For the next few days, I was seeing 3 or
more locations a day. By day 3, I'd found a great place, and threw down
a deposit on the spot. Three weeks later, my wife and I picked up our
keys, and moved in.
