# Sales is broken

More apporpriately, sales in technology is broken.

**TL;DR** I'm on the sales team at [GitHub](http://www.github.com).
We've made a very
conscious decision to structure our team, our procedures, and our
metrics
of success very differently than a traditional sales organization. You
can read our [blog
post](https://github.com/blog/1230-optimizing-sales-for-happiness) on
the subject. 

## Why We're Reinventing The Wheel

Since publicly documenting our stance regarding sales, we've gotten some 
mixed responses. The most predominant of these reactions can be summed
up 
as: "Sales, as a profession, has been going on for centuries. Why ignore
all 
of this proven experience and force yourself to go back to square one?" 

An easy answer to this, and similar questions, is that it's a healthy
thing to reevaluate existing traditions on a regular basis to make sure
that the assumptions behind these traditions are still valid. The story
that's often (over)referenced in these discussions is the [Onion in the
Varnish](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?OnionInTheVarnish) story. To make sure
that our systems moving forward are still relevant and effective, this
level of evaluation is essential.

When GitHub did this review with sales insitituations, and the
profession as a whole, we found major flaws. Flaws that, if left
uncorrected, would be harmful for GitHub. These same flaws have also
lead me to believe that sales as we know it is fundamentally doomed, and
must change to continue to exist in the modern era.

## So What Are These Flaws?

I'll go into specifics below, but the root of these fundamental flaws in
sales is a lack of humanity and mutual respect throughout the
profession. I'm
including managers, executives and even non-sales coworkers in this as
well as salespeople themselves.

### 1 -- There's An Absence of Trust

This is a broad phrase, but it encompasses many of the major issues
plaguing the sales ecosystem. 

Sales managers don't trust their sales team to perform without a
tangible 
dollar "carrot" to chase, rather than assuming that their salespeople 
enjoy working to find a great product/customer fit. This leads to
commission-driven metrics, and other unrealistic metrics. Commissions
can have a place, but too often, especially in the startup world, a
commission only structure is put in place. This shows a lack of
confidence in your product and sales team -- that a brutal commission
structure would be required to shove a product down customer's throats.
On a similar not, it's also not uncommon to provide significant
paperwork 
barriers to sales teams at larger companies, should those salespeople
need to deviate from a standard pocedure for whatever reason. Human
beings, even salespeople, aren't coin-operated machines. What started as
a meaningful revenue share (commissions), and a necessary documentation
process for nontypical actions (paperwork), have become dogmatic
policies rooted in a lack of trust of the sales team.

That said, salespeople are often guilty of levying this same lack of
trust on their own team members, and even customers. I'm well aware that
[the customer is not always
right](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-sanson/the-customer-is-not-always-right_b_1834112.html)
, but the majority of customers _are not_ stupid, evil, or out to to
harm to/with your product. At GitHub, we absolutely trust our users, and
it's empowering. We don't go into discussions with a potential customer
with an apprehensive mentality -- they have nothing to prove to us. I
also trust our products, which means trusting my development team. Our
developers and designers are brilliant, possibly wizards. I know that
our product solves a very poingiant problem, and that it does so in a
very reliable manner. I know that feature requests won't go into a black
hole, nor will they be blindly shoehorned into the product without
regard for the quality that makes us who we are. It all goes back to
trust; I trust our product solves our customers problems, works
extremely well, and that our team respects the customer enough to sort
through valid feedback.

Salespeople and sales managers are not the only players in the spectrum,
however. There is an essential part of the process that, for valid
reasons, has a lack of trust -- the customer. To be clear, I'm not
blaming the customer for not trusting salespeople. This rests solely at
the feet of the sales profession that has repeatedly ruined customer
trust over the years. Salespeople who have lied to the customer, who
have 
made false promise, and who have actively worked against the well being
of the end user are the cause of this lack of trust. This ties well with
my next point.

### 2 - There's An Absence Of Humanity

It's not the customer's job to repair this trust. As salespeople, it's
our job to bridge the gap, and this gap can't be bridged without a
significant change in the mentality.

Customers haven't been valued as people. This needs to change.

Customers shouldn't be viewed as potential commissions, or a lead in a
pipeline. They're people with problems -- problems that we're helping
them solve. 

It's a common practice to learn all you can about your clients, but why 
is this a common practice? Is it to legitimately bond and sypathize with
a fellow human being, or to close and keep a sale? Unless we can
honestly answer with the latter, we're contributing to the problem.

This same observation extends beyond customers. Why do sales teams
constantly sell features that don't exist, only to force the
implementation of these features onto the product team (often with an
unrealistically short deadline). Why are non-sales colleages isolated
away from contact with actual customers and end users? Why are we, as
salespeople, often afraid to reach out to our peers when faced with a
difficult situation?

Our colleagues haven't been valued as people. This needs to change.

How can we introduce change into a profession chronically driven by
numbers and micromanagement? View our customers and colleagues with the
respect they deserve. 
